#  Preface to the Reversed Edition

A twofold purpose motivated my decision in 1969 to a attempt a plenary English translation of The Journey to the West. On the matter of literary form, I wanted my version to rectify the distorted picture provided by Arthur Waley's justly popular abridgement(i.e., Monkey, Folk Novel of China by Wu Cheng'en), which regrettably excised all poetic segment and cut out or revised prose passages at will. I felt strongly that it was high time that a classic Chinese novel like the one in question, though of extraordinary length and complexity, should be read in its entirety and not in bits and pieces. On the matter of the novel's understanding and the critical interpretation, I wanted to redress an imbalance of emphasis championed by Dr. Hu Shi, who provided the Waley volume with the following observation:"[F]reed from all kind of allegorical interpretations by Buddhist, Taoist, and Confusionist commentators, Monkey is simply a book of good humor, Profound nonsense, good-natured satire, and delightful entertainment"(Monkey, p.5) Many other Chinese scholars for most of the twentieth century shared this view. My own encounter with the text since children hood, under the kind and skillful tutelage of my late grandfather, who used the novel as a textbook for teaching me Chinese during the years of the Sino-Japanese war, had long convinced me that this work was nothing if not One of the world's  most finely wrought literary allegories.The past four decades of studying, translating, and teaching it at the University of Chicago have also made me a happy witness to new directions in its scholarly research and interpretation. The persistent efforts of Japanese, European, American, And Chinese scholars - in diaspora and on the mainland during the last two decades - have joined to enlarge  dramatically our understanding of the text's sources and religious context, especially those belonging to the Daoist religion since the late Tang.

Completed in 1983, The first full-length english translation of the novel spawned its own ironies. No sooner had all four volumes appeared than friends and colleagues far and near protested their unwieldy length, for general readers and for classroom usage. After years of resistance to plea, for a shorter edition, I decided, when approaching retirement in 2005, that an abridged version was indeed needed for classroom and readers' needs. The proposed text of about thirty-five chapters would(1) convert the old Wade-Giles System of romanization to the now globally accepted Hanyu Pinyin system for all Chinese names, locals, and terms;(2) remove most the scholarly footnotes and all Chinese texts;(3) provide a new and very brief introduction for general readers; and(4) include minor corrections of rhetoric and vocabulary where needed. The one-volume  edition, The Monkey and the Monk, An Abridgement of The Journey to the West, was published in 2006 by the University of Chicago Press.

Production of this abridged version, paradoxically, made me realize further the endless effort of literary translation, in some ways analogous to a performer's varied readings of a familiar music score. The linguistic signs or musical notations remain the same, but the understanding of them may greatly alter. On the matter of tempo alone, a comparison of Glenn Gould's recordings of J.S.Bach's "The Complete Goldberg Variations" in 1955 and 1981 yields illuminating  differences. My abridgement in every aspect(shorter introduction, simplified notes, emendations) certainly betoken  awareness and assumption of new knowledge. The first full-length edition, in turn, now displays quite a few pockets of the datedness. I resolved that I would devote my new-found "leisure" in retirement to attempt a major and complete overhaul of the first edition. The principal objectives, consistent with, but not entirely identical to, those of the abridged volume, would be to(1) convert the entire  romannization system to Pingyin;(2) restore and update or argument, where necessary, all scholarly annotations;(3) provide a major restatement of the introduction that, apart from providing basic information about the novel, would study the most important new Scholarship on literary issues, religious traditions(specially on identified sources in the Buddhist and Daoist Canons and in extracanonical materials), and modes of interpretation; and(4) correct and emend  both prose and poetic segments tf the translation to make semantics and prosody more concise. Because the five pilgrims in the novel, Like Characters In fiction of another language(e.g., Russian), have multiple names, I have made uniform the way I translate them. Formal names and surnames are romanized(e.g., Chen Xuanzang, Sun Wukong). Informal names or nicknames become direct translations(e.g., Pilgrim for the Chinese "Xingzhe"[disciple or acolyte], Eight Rules for "Bajie," a change in the perjorative title For monkey from the Romanized "Bimawen" to "BanHorsePlague"). My hope is that this revised version, like volumes of the Arden Shakespeare, Third Series, or Dorothy L.Sayer's The Divine Comedy, will last for some time as a teaching edition.